<?xml version='1.0' encoding='ISO-8859-1'?>
<!DOCTYPE refentry PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.2//EN"
"http://www.oasis-open.org/docbook/xml/4.2/docbookx.dtd" [
  <!-- Fill in your name for FIRSTNAME and SURNAME. -->
  <!ENTITY dhfirstname "<firstname>Michael</firstname>">
  <!ENTITY dhsurname   "<surname>Stilkerich</surname>">
  <!-- Please adjust the date whenever revising the manpage. -->
  <!ENTITY dhdate      "<date>January 26, 2006</date>">
  <!-- SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection other parameters are
       allowed: see man(7), man(1). -->
  <!ENTITY dhsection   "<manvolnum>1</manvolnum>">
  <!ENTITY dhemail     "<email>ms@mike2k.de</email>">
  <!ENTITY dhusername  "Michael Stilkerich">
  <!ENTITY dhucpackage "<refentrytitle>GNORMALIZE</refentrytitle>">
  <!ENTITY dhpackage   "gnormalize">

  <!ENTITY debian      "<productname>Debian</productname>">
  <!ENTITY gnu         "<acronym>GNU</acronym>">
  <!ENTITY gpl         "&gnu; <acronym>GPL</acronym>">
]>

<refentry>
  <refentryinfo>
    <address>
      &dhemail;
    </address>
    <author>
      &dhfirstname;
      &dhsurname;
    </author>
    <copyright>
      <year>2006</year>
      <holder>&dhusername;</holder>
    </copyright>
    &dhdate;
  </refentryinfo>
  <refmeta>
    &dhucpackage;

    &dhsection;
  </refmeta>
  <refnamediv>
    <refname>&dhpackage;</refname>

    <refpurpose>audio file normalizer and converter</refpurpose>
  </refnamediv>
  <refsynopsisdiv>
    <cmdsynopsis>
      <command>&dhpackage;</command>
      <arg><option><replaceable>inputfile</replaceable></option></arg>
    </cmdsynopsis>
  </refsynopsisdiv>
  <refsect1>
    <title>DESCRIPTION</title>
    <para>
      <command>&dhpackage;</command> is a GTK2 frontend to various
      commandline utilities that can be used
      for normalization and format conversion of audio files. It can
      furthermore be used to rip audio cds to any of the supported formats.
      Which formats are supported depends on the available audio encoders and
      decoders that are available on your system. With the necessary programs
      installed, &dhpackage; supports MP3, MP4 (M4A or AAC), MPC (MPP or
      MP+ - Musepack), OGG Vorbis, APE (Monkey's Audio), FLAC and WAV both
      as input and output formats. Additionally, the input can also come
      from an audio-cd. Meta-information like ID3 tags are preserved/converted
      during the file conversion.
    </para>
    <para>
      &dhpackage; is also capable of playing audio-cd and fetching meta
      information via CDDB if the CDDB_get perl module is installed.
    </para>

    <para>This manual page was written for the Debian distribution
      because the original program does not have a manual page.
    </para>
  </refsect1>
  <refsect1>
    <title>AUTHOR</title>
    <para>This manual page was written by &dhusername; &dhemail; for
    the Debian system (but may be used by others).  Permission is
    granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under
    the terms of the &gnu; General Public License, Version 2 any 
    later version published by the Free Software Foundation.
    </para>
    <para>
    On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public
    License can be found in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL.
    </para>
  </refsect1>
</refentry>

